Meme Generator

This is a project for generating memes using Python. The project contains a command-line interface tool and a Flask web application that allow users to generate memes. Users can provide their own quotes and images or use the provided quotes and images from the _data folder. The project is structured into different modules for easy maintenance and extension.

Project Structure


├── app.py
├── meme.py
├── models.py
├── memeclass.py
├── QuoteEngine
│   ├── CSVIngestor.py
│   ├── DOCXIngestor.py
│   ├── IngestorInterface.py
│   ├── Ingestor.py
│   ├── PDFIngestor.py
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── TXTIngestor.py
├── static
│   └── ...
├── templates
│   ├── base.html
│   ├── meme_form.html
│   └── meme.html
├── tmp
│   └── ...
├── _data
│   ├── DogQuotes
│   ├── my_images
│   ├── photos
│   └── SimpleLines
├── fonts
│   └── NotoSans-Black.ttf
├── __init__.py
├── list.txt
├── README.md


The project is organized into the following files and folders:

app.py: The main entry point for the web application, using Flask. It contains the code for setting up routes, handling user input, and generating responses.

meme.py: The main script for the meme generator, including the generate_meme function and command line argument parser using argparse. It utilizes the QuoteEngine and MemeEngine classes to generate memes.

memeclass.py: This file contains the MemeEngine class, responsible for loading images, resizing them, adding quotes and authors, and saving the manipulated images.

models.py: This file contains the QuoteModel class, which represents a quote with a body and an author.

QuoteEngine folder: This folder includes different ingestor classes for various file formats (CSV, DOCX, PDF, and TXT), an IngestorInterface abstract base class, and the main Ingestor class that handles file format detection and delegates the parsing to the appropriate ingestor class.

Static folder: A directory that contains static files for the web application, such as CSS and JavaScript files.

Templates folder: This folder contains HTML templates for rendering web pages in the web application. These templates are used in conjunction with the web framework specified in app.py.

_data folder: This folder contains data files with quotes and images used by the meme generator. The quotes are available in different formats, such as CSV, DOCX, PDF, and TXT, and the images serve as backgrounds for the memes.

tmp folder: A directory that is used to store temporary image files generated by the web application.

README.md: The project's README file.



Usage

Command-Line Interface Tool

To use the command-line interface tool, run the following command:

    python app.py

It will put resulted mem picture in "tmp" folder

To generate a meme using the command line, run the following command:

    python meme.py --path <image_path> --body <quote_body> --author <quote_author>

Replace <image_path>, <quote_body>, and <quote_author> with the desired image file path, quote text, and quote author, respectively. If you don't provide these arguments, the script will use a random image and quote from the _data folder.

Flask Web Application

To run the Flask web application, run the following command:

    export FLASK_APP=app.py
    export FLASK_ENV=development
    flask run

This will start the Flask development server on http://localhost:5000/. You can then visit http://localhost:5000/ in your web browser to generate a random meme using the web application.

The web application allows users to submit a URL for an image and a quote body and author. The application will then download the image, generate a meme using the image and the quote, and display the meme to the user.

Dependencies

Please install pdftotext tool with following command: 

sudo apt install poppler-utils

Also install all required packages.

certifi==2022.12.7
charset-normalizer==3.1.0
click==8.1.3
Flask==2.2.3
idna==3.4
itsdangerous==2.1.2
Jinja2==3.1.2
lxml==4.9.2
MarkupSafe==2.1.2
Pillow==9.4.0
PyPDF2==3.0.1
python-docx==0.8.11
requests==2.28.2
urllib3==1.26.15
Werkzeug==2.2.3

You can install these packages by running the following command:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

License
This project is MIT licensed.

